- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

PART 1 OF 6
TAS Journal
Special Report

The Strange Life and
Bizarre Disappearance of
John Iverson

At 9:30 on the evening of January 4, 1991, Charlie Downs heard a call 
go out on his police scanner about a possible kidnapping. The crime 
reporter for the Lake Havasu City, Arizona Herald  jumped to his 
feet. Lake Havasu-a factory town and retirement village of 30,000 
about three hours south of Las Vegas-was not known for frequent 
kidnappings. But Downs also recognized the address, 1770 South Palo 
Verde, as the home of the late Jerrold Munro, a well-known Havasu 
physician. The house was owned and occupied by Munro's widow.
Minutes later, Downs parked his car and walked up Palo Verde in the 
darkness. The Munro house was among the most prominent on the 
suburban street. It was not particularly large, nor was the white 
stucco, Santa Fe ranch atypical of the local architecture. But its parcel 
was bigger than most and, unlike the others on the block, the house 
was set way back, atop a hill at the end of a steep driveway. There 
was also the tall cyclone fence surrounding it on three sides, and the 
ominous black electric gate which protected it from the street. It all 
combined to give 1770 an air of exclusivity not shared by its 
neighbors.
 Downs arrived on the scene with the first police officer. They 
peered into the driveway and saw a motor home parked out front. 
As he listened on the scanner with his headphones, the dispatcher 
identified the victim as 42-year-old John Iverson, and Downs 
instantly recalled the brusque engineer whose Electron Kinetics 
stereo amplifiers he had photographed eight years earlier for a 
product brochure. He remembered Iverson as an eccentric and 
difficult client, the kind who wanted Downs to "design the brochure, 
as long as it was exactly the way he wanted it designed."
The reporter waited as more officers arrived and began their search. 
Inside the house, they found a broken door frame on the family 
room, as though the door had been kicked open. Everything else was 
in order, but the house was empty.
 "Iverson Missing, Believed Abducted," was the headline over 
the page-one story in the Herald, and it marked the bizarre 
disappearance of what may be the most enigmatic character in the 
history of the High End.
 A truly gifted audio designer, Iverson first rose to fame 
pushing the envelope of solid-state electronics in the mid-70s under 
the Electro Research name, and later sold a more affordable line as 
Electron Kinetics. At the moment he dematerialized, he had a small 
but dedicated following-despite the fact that he'd kept a low profile 
in recent years, introducing no new designs and earning much of his 
keep doing upgrades on earlier versions of his amps.
Even in the High End's sheltered world of iconoclastic brilliance, 
Iverson's in-your-face manner had managed to alienate many who 
crossed his path. His supporters represented the remains of a long 
and rocky career largely sabotaged by Iverson himself. And when 
the news of his vanishing spread through the industry, they were 
concerned.
 Many of these people had worked with Iverson in the past, or 
partied with him, or spent countless hours as one of his long-distance 
telephone acquaintances. Even those who had borne the brunt of his 
propensity for friction in business remembered him fondly. They 
recalled the stocky blond powerhouse from the industry's early 
days-greeting people at his CES exhibit room, hotel mattresses 
stuffed into corners for room treatments and an omnipresent bottle 
of Jack Daniels in his hand. And they wondered if this was just 
another of John's wild stories.
 God knows, there were plenty of those. Since first emerging in 
the world of hi-fi, Iverson had used his intelligence, his quick 
imagination, his taste for the outrageous, and his charisma in 
building his own myth. For reasons which can only be speculated-
whether deep insecurity, the sheer sport of toying with his target, or 
both-he told his tales.
 "When I first started to know John, I quickly realized he was 
capable of telling some stories, and in the later years I knew him, his 
yarns became ever more phenomenal," recalls Dan Seifert, who met 
Iverson in 1972 and became both a friend and a technician for his 
first company.
 Mel Schilling, an old business partner, remembers Iverson on 
several occasions telling Schilling's young son that he'd been a 
member of the Olympic swimming team. "John always liked to tell 
stories, and one could never pinpoint as to whether they were true 
or false," he says. "But you could be laughing in the aisles for days, 
because it was just John, and it all came out of his head."
Coupled with his entertaining stories was a brashness that could also 
offend. "He was  a loud, lewd, profane, utterly frank individual," says 
audio writer Dan Sweeney. "Everyone who knew him had a vivid 
impression of him. You either loved him or hated him."
 Yet, while Iverson's foul mouth added color to his personality, 
it went beyond simple profanity. In select company, he was known 
to go off about jews, blacks, Asians, or homosexuals. "He was very 
bigoted," says Charlie Downs, who kept Iverson as a photography 
client for about six months. "We would go out, and John would drink 
his lunch and I'd eat mine, and he'd talk about niggers and Jews and 
how they were the cause of all the world's problems. Not in a loud or 
abusive way, but he'd talk about it."
 Sweeney remembers Iverson as "violently racist and anti-
Semitic," and recalls him carrying on during one interview about 
"niggers on welfare." "I said 'John, you tell this to a member of the 
press? You probably have black clients out there.' He stopped for a 
second and said, 'Yeah, you're probably right, but any guy who would 
buy my product is not a nigger-he's a good man.' "
 And yet, despite the ugly persona he projected, Iverson 
maintained business relations and friendships throughout his career 
with people from all these diverse groups-seemingly without ever 
demonstrating bias. Perhaps because they saw through his crass 
masquerade, or in appreciation of his transparency, people forgave 
him. Sweeney, who has an interracial family, was truly offended by 
Iverson's comments, "but I liked the guy anyway," he says. "There 
was sort of an innocence about him. He was childlike."
 Mark Schneider, publisher of the High End newsletter In Terms 
of Music, and one of Iverson's phone friends, was another who saw 
through the exterior to someone beneath who was unique, likeable, 
and genuine. "I admired his honesty and I admired his products," he 
says. "He was the type of guy that everything he told me panned out. 
If he said use this wire instead of that, it usually worked. There 
aren't too many people like that around."
 "John, under it all, was a very mild, warm-hearted person and 
had a hell of a lot of emotions," explains his aunt, Jo Fenn. "He never 
displayed them, though. He was always rough and tumble and he 
could be belligerent. He'd say, 'I just love to get people rattled.' "
Iverson could be particularly loyal to friends. Stan Rosick, for 
example, who was close with Iverson until the two had a falling out 
in the early 1980s, remembers him driving three hours once to tow 
Rosick back home when his car broke down.
 Nor was Iverson beyond thoughtfulness toward strangers. 
Transients knocking on the door to his shop in an industrial area of 
Lake Havasu found a friendly face. At the moment of his 
disappearance, he was allowing one to live in an old motor home he 
kept parked on the property, and, earlier that day, had taken him to 
shop for groceries. "I never saw John not act kindly toward his fellow 
man, particularly a man in need," says Russell Sherwood, another 
close friend who had worked for him in Havasu.
 To those he knew, both in his business and personal life, 
Iverson fancied himself a genius, an Edison-like inventor who was 
incessantly tracked by "the Gov," as he derisively coined the federal 
government. He claimed the FBI had picked his brain on at least two 
occasions, stealing or squashing his inventions by citing military 
privilege. These experiences had, supposedly, left him a bitter man 
and a strong libertarian, morally opposed to virtually all authority, 
from that of the local electric utility to the Internal Revenue Service.
With regard to his background, he liked to tell friends and 
acquaintances he had attended MIT, though he also alluded that he'd 
been thrown out for getting physical with a professor with whom he 
disagreed over a class lecture. He claimed to have worked for various 
military contractors before getting into audio design, and sometimes 
said he'd worked for NASA at the White Sands National Laboratory 
during the Apollo program.
 In fact, many of Iverson's stories have at least some elements 
of truth behind them. But-as the police quickly learned-getting a 
firm handle on the man is like trying to shape a mass of warm Jello. 
The harder you squeeze, the more loose ends you come up with.

The Case That Wouldn't Go Away
At this writing (5/94), the Lake Havasu City Police Department has 
been trying to find John Iverson for more than three years. Detective 
Rich Funder and his associate Kris Knudtson have filled several large 
loose-leaf binders with documents, and spent many hours trying to 
make some sense of the conundra that compose the case.
 Besides Iverson, there are several others involved in the drama, 
including Kathy Munro, Iverson's former wife as well as  live-in 
girlfriend, and Jack Weber, a 51-year old machinist from Las Vegas 
who was supplying Iverson with cabinet parts. Both were present 
the night Iverson disappeared.
 Another bit player is a former Los Angeles-area hi-fi dealer 
named Don Frick. Considered by Iverson's family to be his most-
trusted friend, Frick had relocated to Havasu just a day or two before 
Iverson's disappearance to start a new business with him 
manufacturing and selling loudspeakers. Iverson vanished before the 
two could even meet. According to Lake Havasu
police, Frick subsequently moved back to California, then himself 
disappeared a few months later and left no forwarding address. 
They've been unable to find him  since.
 Also on the periphery is Sherwood, a former drinking buddy 
and employee of Iverson's who is now a freelance engineer in 
Kansas. After Iverson's disappearance, Sherwood bought the 
remnants of his lab from Munro. Around the same time, he says, he 
also purchased 18 new Electron Kinetics amplifiers for the modest 
sum of $5,000-they were being held by a local bank in lieu of money 
Iverson owed on an outstanding business loan, and the bank was all 
too happy to dispose of the product.
 Sherwood subsequently launched a company called Electron 
Kinetics Service Center to service existing Electron Kinetics amps and 
produce new products under the brand name. Coincidentally, it was 
Sherwood who, in July of 1990, hooked Iverson up with Jack Weber 
when Iverson found himself running out of cabinets for his amps. 
Sherwood had seen the remarkable work Weber had done for other 
firms Sherwood had worked with, and knew Weber's perfectionism 
would please Iverson. "When it came to making cases, he was 
Michaelangelo," Sherwood says.
 Munro and Weber offer markedly different versions of the 
circumstances surrounding Iverson's disappearance. What's known 
for sure is that Iverson and Weber were talking business at the 
house that evening. Weber-an avuncular-looking man with owl-
frame glasses- later told police that it was the fifth or sixth time 
during their six months of doing business that he had made the trip 
from his shop in Las Vegas.
 That January afternoon, Munro says he showed up around 5:00 
p.m. to drop off a special project he'd been working on for Iverson. 
Normally, when Weber visited, Munro would call Iverson at his own 
shop across town, and he would come home. But Iverson had stepped 
out and was nowhere to be found. The police later determined he'd 
been out food shopping with the transient. (The transient was 
subsequently cleared of any connection with the disappearance.)
Munro told this reporter that as she and Weber waited alone in the 
kitchen for Iverson to arrive, she poured him some coffee and tried 
to make small talk. But she found him unusually uncommunicative 
compared with the previous times she'd met him. "I just felt 
something wasn't right," she says.
 Her feeling was compounded when Weber asked if she could 
open the remote control gate so he could pull his van close to the 
house; presumably, he had Iverson's project in the back and thought 
it would be more secure in the driveway than on the street. She 
agreed, but when Weber came back inside, she was further unnerved 
by the fact that he came in carrying a briefcase. "I thought it was 
strange-it was the first time I'd ever seen him with a briefcase," she 
says.
 As the two talked, the subject of an outstanding invoice came 
up. Munro, who was also Iverson's bookkeeper, says she couldn't 
locate the bill from Weber that she'd had on her desk earlier in the 
week. But she took it upon herself to write him a check for $1000, 
using one of several blanks with Iverson's signature that she kept 
handy. Weber's reaction, she says, was odd. "If you give somebody a 
check for that amount, normally they'd pick it up, look at it, turn it 
over, whatever," she says. "He didn't touch it. The only thing he 
touched was the chair and his coffee cup. He wouldn't even take it 
from my hand-I had to set it right in front of him."
 Eventually, about an hour after Weber arrived, Iverson finally 
showed up, Munro says. She says they had a small but pleasant 
exchange, and she told him about the check she wrote; he told her 
that was okay, kissed her on the head, and sent her off to bed.
While the two men talked in the kitchen, she fell asleep. She awoke a 
while later and found them gone, but dozed off again. Then, around 
9:30, she says, she saw a flashlight coming down the dark hallway 
toward her bedroom, and assumed it was Iverson, who worked at 
night at the shop and often used a flashlight to navigate the house on 
his return so he wouldn't disturb her.

...continued...
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

PART 2 OF 6
TAS Journal
Special Report

The Strange Life and
Bizarre Disappearance of
John Iverson

 But instead of Iverson, she says, the person behind the 
flashlight turned out to be Jack Weber, wearing a pair of green 
gloves and brandishing a pistol in his other hand. He claimed to have 
Iverson tied up in his van, and demanded money, she says. "The first 
thing I thought was 'Oh my god, this is what the LaBiancas [Charles 
Manson's victims] went through. This is what they must have felt 
when they knew they were going to die.'"
 Munro says she handed over $4000 in cash she had in the 
house, but he wanted me to go in there and write out another check. 
He wanted to know how much money John had in his checking 
account. She went to the office to write him a check for $2500. But 
she feared for her life, she said, and pretended to make mistakes in 
drafting the check, purposely writing three stubs with Weber's name 
on them as a clue to police before handing over the final draft. 
Weber then led her down a hallway toward the kitchen.
As she followed him, she said, she quickly ducked into the family 
room, locking the door behind her, and escaped through another door 
to the driveway. She ran screaming down the steep driveway, right 
past the van where Iverson was supposedly being held, and called 
police from a neighbor's home. They arrived to find Weber, the van, 
and Iverson all missing.
 Later, when police looked in Iverson's motor home-the one 
parked in the driveway-they found a damaged table and a spot on 
the carpet of what appeared to be fresh household cleaner. The spot 
had been covered with a small throw rug. Doug Iverson, John's 
brother, who makes his living as a veterinarian, was convinced the 
spot contained blood. After arguing with police, he says, he proved 
his point by performing a common laboratory test he uses to check 
for blood in animal stools. But while the police did confirm a very 
minute amount of blood in the otherwise large spot of Simple Green 
spray cleaner, they were never able to get a usable hair sample from 
Munro to perform DNA matching to establish if the blood was 
Iverson's, or even human. Nor was it clear whether the blood was 
fresh.
 What is clear, however, is that Munro had been in the motor 
home a day or two before to tidy it for a trip to CES they had 
scheduled for the very day after Iverson disappeared. She told this 
reporter she left a new, unused bottle of Simple Green spray cleaner 
in the RV, which had presumably been used by persons unknown to 
cover the blood, though the police, who took the bottle for evidence, 
suggest it had been there for awhile and was partially used. 
Meanwhile, on the night of the disappearance, Jack Weber had 
vanished along with Iverson, and on Munro's word, police put out an 
APB for Weber on suspicion of kidnapping and armed robbery. One 
day passed, then two. The Las Vegas FBI office was brought in, but 
was of no help in locating the fugitive Weber or his silver, 1985 
custom Ford van. His phone calls to his wife in the days immediately 
following the disappearance provided no clues. Nor did the 
authorities learn anything from Weber's attempt to deposit, by mail, 
the check Munro had written into an account he held at a Colorado 
bank.
 On February 1, about a month after the disappearance, Weber's 
van mysteriously turned up in a parking lot in a light industrial area 
10 miles from his home in Las Vegas. Vegas police had acted on a 
letter he'd written to his wife pinpointing the van's location, and 
requesting it be returned to the bank so she would not have to 
continue payments on it. The postmark on the letter was illegible. 
Nor was there useful evidence or any signs of struggle found inside 
the van. Indeed, the van was so clean that it led the LHPD's Funder to 
largely dismiss the tiny blood spot found in Iverson's RV. "If there 
had been a struggle [in the motor home], there should have been 
blood in Weber's van," he says, "and there was absolutely nothing to 
indicate that anyone had been in there but Weber."
 Finally, on April 23, with Iverson missing for nearly four 
months, a tired Jack Weber turned himself in to the FBI in Las Vegas 
at the urging of his wife. He was extradited to Mohave County, 
Arizona to face the kidnapping and armed robbery charges, and 
remained behind bars, unable to make his $140,000 bail.
 After securing an attorney, Weber gave his version of what 
happened the night of Iverson's disappearance. Through his attorney, 
Bill Porter of Kingman, Arizona, he declined to be interviewed for 
this article. "He's been through an awful lot with this thing," Porter 
says, noting that Weber still runs the risk of being brought up on 
new charges at any time. "All he wants is a little peace."
 In his lengthy, handwritten statement  to police, Weber 
described an elaborate sequence of events by which he claimed 
Iverson had actually played him for a patsy, setting him up to take 
the fall on bogus kidnapping charges before giving him the slip a few 
days later.
 But there was more. At the same time he disappeared, Weber 
added, Iverson also made off with that special project: an exotic and 
deadly gun he had designed and commissioned Weber to build, and 
which Weber had delivered the night of the disappearance. The plans 
had vanished along with Iverson, though Weber did claim to have his 
own shop drawings.
 The gun Weber described was the same one Iverson had 
bragged about to several people in the days prior to his 
disappearance. It was supposed to be a rapid-fire weapon that used 
no live ammunition. Instead, Weber wrote in his statement, "it 
worked more like a slingshot that would fire projectiles at a rate of 
12,000 per minute with the velocity close to a .45 caliber bullet." 
Friends and family to whom Iverson explained the design say it was 
basically a kind of "rotoblaster," in which pellets from  a holding bin 
would encounter a paddle-wheel device being spun at high speed. 
The pellets would be thrust through a series of interwoven barrels, 
which eventually joined into a single barrel and exit point.
 According to Weber, Iverson had fallen behind in his payments 
for cabinet work. So when Iverson approached him in November of 
1990 to build a prototype for his weapon, the machinist refused to 
touch it without payment up front. But Iverson convinced him that 
he'd settle up when the gun was delivered, and said he had a 
customer waiting for it. Weber said he finally called Iverson on 
Wednesday, January  2, 1991 to tell him it was complete, and 
Iverson agreed to square up with him that Friday on $8400 in 
current and back payments due.
 On Friday afternoon, Weber arrived around 4 pm, and Kathy 
greeted him in her pajamas. This was not unusual, he told police. In 
each of his five or six visits, he wrote, "no matter what time of day, 
she always stayed in bed and in pajamas while I was there."
It was true, Weber said, that Iverson was not available when he 
arrived at the house, and that Kathy, in her role as Iverson's 
bookkeeper-issued him a check for $1,000 from Iverson's business 
account. But when Weber deemed the amount inadequate, Munro 
grew visibly nervous, and began pacing back and forth between her 
bedroom and the kitchen, Weber said. "Finally, after about one and a 
half hours I told her maybe I should leave and go eat and come back 
in an hour, but she said no, that he should be home anytime," Weber 
wrote.
 When Iverson finally showed up at around 6:30 pm, Weber 
said Munro walked straight to her bedroom without acknowledging 
his arrival. Iverson simply apologized to Weber for being late, and 
after about an hour of small talk, asked if he'd brought the gun. 
Weber said that he had, but refused to leave it unless Iverson paid 
up. While they were there in Iverson's kitchen, Weber said Iverson 
received a call from someone inquiring about the gun. He "told 
whomever he was talking to that I was there and that yes, I had 
brought the prototype of the gun with me, and that Tuesday or 
Wednesday would be a good time."
 Weber's statement describes how the two then went out to the 
bottom of the driveway where Weber's van was parked, and 
swiveled the front seats to examine the weapon, which was laid out 
on the back seat. Iverson repeated that he had a customer for it, and 
offered Weber $2,500 in good faith, promising to pay the balance he 
was owed the following week-after he'd had a chance to 
demonstrate it to the would-be buyer.
 Weber finally agreed, and Iverson sent him back to the now 
dark house (using the flashlight they had used to make their way 
down) to ask Munro for another check. He left Iverson in the van, he 
said, studying the gun.
 Weber made his way to Munro's bedroom door, he wrote, and 
she emerged at his call. She led him into an office, he says, where she 
made some calculations and asked him to return the $1,000 check 
she'd written earlier to help cover the $2,500 she was about to issue. 
He complied, and she handed over the new check. When she asked 
for a receipt, he reminded her that the invoice he had left on the 
kitchen table had been marked paid-on-account, and suggested that 
he could change the number and initial it.
 They started for the kitchen, Weber said, but when he got 
there, she was no longer behind him. He started back for the office 
when, suddenly, he heard Munro hollering outside in the driveway. 
He made his way back to the van and asked Iverson "what the hell 
she was doing, and he said he didn't know, and I asked him why he 
didn't stop her if she went running by there, and he said he didn't 
see her, that he only heard her just before I got there. So I asked him 
why she would do that, and he said he didn't know, but let's just 
leave and she will calm down and then I will talk to her" (sic).
Weber wrote that after picking up a box with unknown contents 
from his garage, Iverson instructed him to drive to Bullhead City, a 
gambling town on the Nevada border. Along the way, Weber said 
Iverson told him that he and Munro "had been having problems."  
Eventually, Iverson stopped and made a call, supposedly to Munro. 
He came back to tell Weber that the police had come to the house at 
Palo Verde, but she'd told them it was a mistake.
 Weber said Iverson convinced him to sleep out that night in 
the van so they could fire the gun in the morning, which, he told 
police, he had not yet tested at this point. When Weber agreed and 
suggested he needed to call his wife and tell her he wouldn't be 
coming home, Iverson stopped him, saying he'd already told Munro 
to call her for him. He told Weber that since he'd built the gun, he 
just knew he would want to see it work. "It sounded logical, and 
believe me, this guy was a very convincing talker," Weber wrote.
The next day, Weber said, they tested the gun in the desert, and 
while it needed revision, it did work. Afterward, he claimed that the 
two "went around and picked up as many ball bearings as we could," 
which might explain why the police found no evidence of the gun 
being fired when Weber took them to the spot later.
 Later that day, Weber said, he called his wife and found her 
sobbing-the FBI and police had been looking for him, she said, and 
there was a warrant out for his arrest. After assuring her that John 
was fine and was with him, and that "I sure as hell didn't kidnap 
him," he went back and complained to Iverson. So Iverson made 
another call, Weber said, presumably to Munro, and came back to tell 
him that the police had returned later the night before and took it 
upon themselves to issue the warrant when Munro failed to confirm 
Iverson's whereabouts.
 Weber says he then insisted they go back to Lake Havasu 
together to clear the matter up. But Iverson resisted, claiming that he 
would surely be thrown in jail for "violating his parole."
 In fact, Iverson was on probation after having been caught out 
in the desert in March 1990 with Russ Sherwood, spooling up what 
they thought was abandoned telegraph wire. It turned out to be the 
property of the local utility company. According to Sherwood, he and 
Iverson each paid a $2,400 fine, $2,400 retribution, and were placed 
on probation. Since the conviction, Iverson had been visiting a 
probation officer once a week.
 Iverson apparently feared some kind of backlash over this new 
incident, Weber said, and thought they should seek out an attorney 
before going to the authorities. But when Weber suggested they find 
one in Lake Havasu, Iverson resisted again, once more citing his 
"parole" and suggesting that it was in Mohave County, where "the 
sheriff was out to bust him for any reason." Instead, Weber wrote, 
Iverson promised to call an attorney he knew in Phoenix the next 
day, Sunday, January 6. To this Weber once again agreed, and they 
again slept in the van. The next day, Weber said, he stood next to 
Iverson as he made the call to the attorney. And when Iverson hung 
up the phone, he told Weber the meeting was all set for the following 
Friday morning-a full five days later.
 At this point, Weber said, they hid the gun and the blueprints 
at a nearby construction site near Laughlin, and drove to Phoenix, 
arriving around 8 p.m. Sunday night. Weber wanted to go home to 
see his wife, however, so he dropped Iverson off at a street corner 
with several motels, where they agreed to meet the following Friday 
morning. Weber said he drove back to Vegas, walked right up to his 
home-despite the fact that the police were supposed to be looking 
for him-packed some clothes, and lived out of his van on another 
side of town until leaving for Phoenix on Thursday night. Of course, 
Iverson never showed. Realizing he'd been taken for a fool, Weber 
drove back to Laughlin, and was not surprised to find the gun and 
blueprints missing from their hiding spot.

...continued...
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

PART 3 OF 6
TAS Journal
Special Report

The Strange Life and
Bizarre Disappearance of
John Iverson

 Weber told law enforcement officials that once he realized he 
was wanted in connection with Iverson's kidnapping, he went on the 
lam in the hope that their ongoing investigation would uncover 
Iverson's whereabouts. In the months that followed, he said he had 
travelled to California three times: twice to visit his 30-year-old 
daughter, who was suffering from leukemia, and the last time, on 
March 8, for her cremation.  He was, he says, at his home in Las 
Vegas the rest of the time he was wanted, until his wife convinced 
him to face the charges. By the time he turned himself in, America's 
Most Wanted was hot on his trail, having contacted Iverson's brother 
and other family members just a short while before about doing a 
segment on the well-known crimestopper show. They dropped the 
story the minute Weber was taken into custody.
 The fact that Iverson failed to materialize turned out to be 
good luck for Weber. There was no body, no weapon, no other 
witnesses except Munro, and nothing to hold him beyond her 
statement. That quickly disintegrated when she flunked a lie 
detector test police gave her to determine if she'd been truthful in 
her description of the events that night. Munro blames the outcome 
of the test on a bad reaction to medication she was taking at the 
time, specifically a combination of Prozac and Valium prescribed for 
her in the days immediately following Iverson's disappearance. She 
was asked by law enforcement authorities to stop taking the pills a 
day or two before the test was administered, she says, and had a 
withdrawal reaction during the exam. "I tried to tell [the tester] 
during the test that I was having a flashback; I can see [Weber] 
coming at me."
 It's worth noting that, though lie detector tests are not 
infallible, and can be thrown off by a variety of factors, efforts are 
made at the start of every test to establish a baseline reading based 
on the subject's current physiology and mood; all answers are then 
referenced to the baseline. In any event, Munro was asked by 
Mohave County authorities to return for a second test, but refused to 
be tested by the same examiner. Instead, she hired a private, 
certified examiner in California to conduct the test in her new 
hometown. The second test showed her to be truthful. But with no 
control over what questions were asked or how they were delivered, 
the DA viewed those results as unreliable as well.
 Weber was released in June, 1991 and rejoined his wife in Las 
Vegas. That summer, the charges against him were dropped without 
prejudice, meaning that new charges may be brought should 
Iverson's body or other evidence be found. He has since relocated to 
another city. 

More Questions Than Answers?
Weber's statement went into much detail, describing an Iverson 
easily recognized by his friends: a trash-talking anarchist capable of 
downing two pints of whiskey in a three-hour visit to Weber's home. 
But it raises many questions as well.
 To wit: Why would Weber, recognizing that he was wanted 
unjustly in connection with the kidnapping, let the obviously 
unpredictable Iverson out of his sight? Why would a person with 
ordinary common sense who was in that kind of trouble agree to 
wait five whole days before seeing an attorney?
 How could Weber and Iverson, who was not known for his 
patience under any circumstance, run around the desert picking up 
BBs emitted at 12,000 rounds per minute from the infamous gun?
Why did Weber say in his statement that he had never been to 
Iverson's shop, and that all meetings had taken place at his home, 
when Iverson's last employee clearly remembered meeting Weber at 
the shop at least once when he came to take measurements on a 
prototype loudspeaker Iverson was working on prior to his 
disappearance?
 And then there's that nagging detail, seemingly irrelevant, 
about Weber's van. Remember the van? When it was finally picked 
up by police in Las Vegas, on Weber's own tip, it had been sitting for 
several days in a local parking lot.
 By coincidence, that happened to be the parking lot of a gun 
shop. But not just your ordinary gun shop catering to run-of-the-mill 
hunters. Called "The Survival Store," it sells automatic rifles from as 
many countries as most folks can name. Brochures distributed in the 
racks advertise the shop's indoor shooting range and junkets to the 
desert so you can "fire your favorite machine gun." (The law  has 
been unable to establish any connection between Weber and the 
store.)
 Even before her problems with the lie detector test, Munro's 
version also raises at least one issue. Note that she told police that as 
Weber led her down the hall toward the kitchen, she escaped 
through a side door and into another room with egress to the 
driveway. But anyone who's ever played cops and robbers as a kid 
can only wonder: If Weber really had a gun trained on her and 
wanted to command her to another room, wouldn't he have been 
standing behind her instead of leading her down the hallway? 
Munro's explanation is that Peg, the couple's black Lab, stayed 
between her and Weber the whole time, and wouldn't let Weber 
move around her.
 Munro also moved to liquidate her assets and get out of town 
with an expediency that angered and puzzled John's family. Shortly 
after the disappearance, the house on Palo Verde and her commercial 
property were placed on the block; the motor home, after the police 
had chopped out the carpet, went immediately for repair and was 
subsequently sold. Within two months of Iverson's vanishing, Munro 
had relocated to a town in California I have been asked not to 
disclose.
 By that time, she says she was at the end of her emotional 
rope, and suggests that her allergic reaction to the Prozac had turned 
her into a frightened recluse trapped in her own home. Finally, her 
sister came and rescued her. "My family wanted me out of there and 
I stayed two months... If I'd ended up staying I would have really 
been in the loony bin," she says. 
 But Iverson's brother, aunt, and cousin, all of whom keep 
homes in Havasu, or were there just prior to or following the 
disappearance, harbor suspicions about Munro's story. They question 
whether Weber would have raised a gun to Iverson over back 
invoices, and they doubt whether he would been any match in a 
confrontation with the powerfully muscular  Iverson, who measured 
the same height at 5'8", but weighed about 50 pounds more. 
Members of Iverson's family also told me they found it odd that 
Munro, a woman who'd just lost her mate under the worst of 
circumstances and was periodically breaking into hysterics, showed 
so much interest in settling up who-owned-what and liquidating her 
assets during a time when finding out what really happened to John 
ought to have been her first priority.
 One episode early on involved a discussion she'd had with Doug 
Iverson, with whom she squared off quickly. Doug had just flown in 
from Seattle to Lake Havasu, on the Sunday following the Friday 
disappearance, to assist in the police efforts. John's mother had 
passed away about two years before, leaving behind an estate, and 
despite the family's concern over John's welfare, Munro made it a 
point to ask Doug what her missing mate was entitled to. "Someone 
who's grieving and can't function all of sudden functions perfectly 
over money?" says John's cousin, Patty Rahmen. "Doug just lost it. He 
said, 'You will never get your hands on that. Never. Just put it out of 
your mind.' "
 At this writing neither Iverson nor any new evidence against 
Weber has surfaced. But the case is still open and active, according to 
the Lake Havasu police. And in a case where alibis conflict and 
nothing adds up, all parties are suspect-including Iverson himself, 
whose wild past and wagging tongue have led more than a few  to 
believe he may have staged his own kidnapping.

High End Renegade
Born in Seattle on January 14, 1948, John Gordon Iverson began 
showing remarkable intelligence early. According to his family, he 
was verbally sounding out the words on bus advertisements at two 
years old, having taught himself to read with the aid of children's 
blocks. Within a few years, he began to show his father's interest in 
all things electronic. "Our parents used to say that John wasn't born 
with an umbilical cord, but with an extension cord," says his brother 
Doug.
 Al Iverson, John's father, himself an enigma, was a strong role 
model for John through most of his adult life as they continued to 
live and work together. 
 John was known to tell people that his father was a native 
German who had fought in Hitler's army before emigrating to North 
America. It was an explanation to visitors who came to their office 
and listening room in Anaheim in the early 1970s and were shocked 
by the sight of a full-size Nazi flag on the wall. But while some who 
knew them both say Al clearly helped foster John's outspoken 
intolerance toward minorities, the truth is probably more tame.
According to John's aunt Jo, Al Iverson was born in Sweden and 
moved as a small child with his parents to a farm outside of Calgary, 
Alberta. He grew up and went to school for accounting, but taught 
himself electrical engineering by experimenting in a home workshop. 
During World War II, he was turned down by the Canadian air force 
for visual impairment, but ended up supporting the Allied effort by 
working as an engineer for Boeing Aircraft in Vancouver. While the 
war was still on, says Fenn, Boeing took advantage of relaxed 
immigration rules to transfer him and his new wife, Betty, to Seattle. 
John was born a short while later.
 Eventually, Al moved his family  to Garden Grove, California 
and with the dawn of television, opened a TV sales and repair shop. 
Al was both a loner and a driven workaholic; two terms that would 
later be used to describe John. While his wife enjoyed socializing, Al 
despised it, emerging from his lab just long enough to greet her 
visitors before excusing himself to return to the next pressing 
experiment.
 While John was in his late teens, Betty left Al for a well-to-do 
Seattle businessman, giving John the option of staying in California or 
moving with her and his younger brother back to Washington. He 
chose to stay with his father, and his bitterness over the split lasted 
up to his father's death in 1981, when John refused to allow his 
mother to attend the funeral.
 The bad blood also carried over to John's relationship with 
Doug, whom he is said to have felt jealousy toward for living a life of 
privilege in Seattle while he and his father continued to struggle 
financially. And while John's estrangement with his mother lasted 
until his father's death, it was not until his mother's death in 1988 
that a reconciliation was sparked in earnest with his only sibling-one 
that was abruptly cut short by his disappearance. Doug feels great 
pain over the loss, and has dedicated himself to finding John or the 
truth about what happened to him.
 As a boy, Iverson showed an affinity for model rockets and 
worked constantly on a variety of homebrew electronics projects. But 
his life before joining the audio industry remains mostly a mystery.
According to his brother's sketchy information, John graduated high 
school and began attending a local college. While there in the late 
1960s, he worked simultaneously as a technician at a military 
contractor, possibly Hughes Aircraft. Hughes, Doug Iverson says, 
offered him an opportunity to attend MIT at company expense in 
return for two years of guaranteed employment for each year at 
school. John may have gone to Massachusetts to check out the school, 
but that's about as close as he got to MIT. Not a man well-suited to 
indentured servitude, and concerned about his father's recurring 
heart trouble, Iverson elected to stay in California. (MIT has no 
record of his attendance, and a personnel check with Hughes was  
inconclusive.)
 As for John's suggestion to some that he'd been thrown out of 
MIT, an apparent seed can be found elsewhere. Kathy Munro was 
told by John about an episode at "some local college" where he was, 
she says, temporarily suspended for grabbing the collar of a 
professor he disagreed with.
 John sometimes told a story, unverified, about working on a 
school project he built while still at Hughes that got him into hot 
water with the government for the first time. It was a missile 
guidance system, built for a model rocket, which supposedly used 
what was then relatively unproven heat-seeking technology. The 
story goes that when he and his father took it out to the desert near 
29 Palms to test it, its trajectory toward the sun was deflected by the 
plume of a passing jet from a nearby military base, which it 
proceeded to follow. No damage was done, but the Iversons were 
taken into custody while collecting their gear. John was subsequently 
given the option of going to jail, going to Vietnam, or going to White 
Sands National Laboratory to work for NASA on the Apollo program. 
He supposedly chose the latter, and worked on navigation systems 
for the lunar module.

...continued...
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Article 17999 of rec.audio.high-end:
Path: news.kth.se!sunic!trane.uninett.no!eunet.no!nuug!EU.net!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!purdue!lerc.nasa.gov!lerc.nasa.gov!uunet.uu.net!not-for-mail
From: NeuroHackr@aol.com
Newsgroups: rec.audio.high-end
Subject: (4 of 6) Disappearance of John Iverson
Date: 29 Jul 1994 13:14:26 -0400
Organization: NASA Lewis Research Center
Lines: 241
Sender: torgd@lerc.nasa.gov
Approved: torgd@tolstoy.lerc.nasa.gov
Message-ID: <31bddi$ica@tolstoy.lerc.nasa.gov>
NNTP-Posting-Host: tolstoy.lerc.nasa.gov

The following article is reprinted courtesy of THE ABSOLUTE SOUND(r).
(C) 1994 THE ABSOLUTE SOUND.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Not one word of this article may be reprinted without the written 
permission of the publisher.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - -
PART 4 OF 6
TAS Journal
Special Report

The Strange Life and
Bizarre Disappearance of
John Iverson

 Another version of the same tale, also unverified, is told by his 
brother. It makes no mention of the ill-fated test launch, but 
confirms the existence of the missile guidance system, a stained, 
cracked photograph of which was obtained by TAS . In this version 
of the tale, knowledge of Iverson's school project somehow gets back 
to the authorities at Hughes-who may have suspected espionage. 
John is eventually paid a visit at home by the FBI, who insist on a 
full set of plans before leaving with the device and documents in 
hand. However, Dan Seifert, Iverson's friend and one-time employee, 
recalls seeing the nose-cone-shaped stack of circuit boards in 
Iverson's possession in the early 1970s, and hearing John's 
declaration that "he had tested it and had proved to his satisfaction 
that it worked."
 At some point in the early 1970s, Iverson segued into the 
audio business, where he eventually formed his own company after a 
stint at Marantz. At the time, the venerable firm was still owned by 
the Tuchinsky family, who had founded SuperScope. It was short-
lived. "John's story is that he was too revolutionary for them," says 
Seifert. "Their story was that he couldn't be controlled." Indeed. By 
his early 20s, he had grown into a kind of renegade genius the likes 
of which the industry hadn't really seen before. Though the baby 
boomer children of the sixties would eventually deliver a handful of 
iconoclastic designers who partied hard and took no prisoners, 
neither the High End-nor anyone else, apparently-was prepared for 
the likes of John Iverson. He was foul-mouthed, always "right," and 
made no effort to hide his drinking or party habits. He had a well-
known penchant for guns, and was not beyond flashing a piece now 
and then. And when all else failed, he knew how to use his fists.
Beyond the audio arena, he liked cars and motorcycles, which he 
drove fast. He was also an avid inventor who, even before his 
appearance in the High End, had built, among other things, his missile 
guidance system and a carburetor which he claimed would deliver 
45 miles to the gallon in his 1965 Buick.
 He also spent long hours over several years during the late 
1970s trying to perfect a mechanism to prove that the forces of 
attraction and repulsion found in permanent magnets could be 
harnessed for a kind of perpetual motion machine. Many people saw 
the elaborate and finely machined device, which was to use a series 
of spinning magnetic armatures hooked to a gear train. "It was so 
complicated, you had to wonder where he dreamed up this thing," 
Seifert recalls. "It was really impressive."
 His passion for tinkering didn't wane over the years, and in the 
two years prior to his disappearance, he had created one of his most 
remarkable inventions, at a total cost of about $65,000. Dubbed the 
Toodler, it was a go anywhere all-terrain vehicle with independent 
hydraulic motors on each wheel. It had a joint in the middle that 
allowed it to make incredibly sharp turns, and it could even spin in 
place.  It could also climb extremely steep inclines, as Doug Iverson 
learned one day as John drove it up the steps in the pool area behind 
the house at 1770 South Palo Verde, concrete crumbling beneath the 
wheels. It was the Toodler that Iverson and Sherwood had used for 
collecting the wire in the desert the night they were arrested.
None of these wild inventions ever brought Iverson a stitch of wealth 
or fame. But in the High End, he made a name for himself that was, 
for a time at least, unparalleled in the business.

Pushing The Sonic Envelope
The years spanning the mid-1970s were surely Iverson's glory days 
as he began touting a series of his own products, including some bona 
fide breakthroughs. As an audio designer, he was the real thing in an 
industry full of wannabees, according to peers. "A lot of people in the 
High End are not designers, but techs who became heads of 
companies who never did anything but copy something and make a 
package," says John Curl, himself a trailblazer with his early solid-
state designs. "John was a very fine engineer, one of the best."
Iverson's approach, say other designers, was to take conventional 
parts-for example, bipolar transistors as opposed to FETs-and wring 
every last bit out of them with clever topologies that drove them 
hard but kept distortion low. "His designs were conservative, but he 
was very knowledgeable about what components could do, and very 
good at making them perform considerably better than their book 
specs," says Andy Hefley, who worked with Iverson at one point and 
went on to help found Great American Sound in the mid-1970s with 
James Bongiorno.
 "He was extremely opinionated and extremely powerful as an 
individual," recalls designer Bascom King. King was the star 
electronics designer for Infinity, working with the company on its 
early FET and servo amp attempts, as well as the working end of its 
gargantuan IRS woofer monoliths. He and Iverson became friends 
after the two had a "shoot-out" in a hi-fi salon where both had 
products on display. "He had an incredible mind, but he had an 
attitude," says King. "This industry is full of big egos, and he was one 
of them. But he could sure make things sound good."
 Nevertheless, Iverson's first High End products were not the 
amplifiers for which he later became known, but a grouping of three 
dynamic loudspeakers sold directly to stores under the brand name 
Omega. The largest model was known for its prodigious bass, 
provided by two 12-inch woofers stiffened with a white glue 
concoction the designer called Moose Snot.
 His sales pitch, circa 1972, consisted of walking into a store, 
bragging loudly about his speakers, then insisting they be 
demonstrated with his own homebrew amplifier, a one-of-a-kind 
Class A affair housed in a discarded Hewlett-Packard instrument 
case. It had that unmistakable sheen of a fine industrial instrument, 
with the square push-button switches and lit meters. Though it only 
delivered 70 watts a side, it made a bigger impression than his 
speakers. "It didn't matter what you hooked it up to-it was a 
revelation," says Seifert, who met John in a stereo shop during one of 
those sales visits.
 That amp-a precursor to the groundbreaking Electro Research 
A75-was too expensive to produce in quantity. Instead, Iverson 
designed a large Class AB amp which he sold in small quantities as 
the first product under the Electro Research name.
The A75, introduced around 1974, was indeed a revelation. It got 
rave reviews for its highly detailed and coherent sound, and clearly 
pushed the envelope of solid-state electronics with a then-
unmatched musicality (though this magazine ultimately found it dark 
in character). It was only rated at 75 watts-per-channel at eight 
ohms, but it could handily drive a one-ohm load, and Iverson 
emphasized, fairly, that with any speaker these were "really big 
watts."
 At $2100, the A75 was incredibly expensive for the day and 
quite limited in supply, thus making it all the more desirable. 
Iverson liked to further amplify its High End mystique by suggesting 
that it had been adapted from a circuit he'd built for turning gun 
turrets on Navy ships. He was also fond of telling dealers that one 
particular unit had survived a fall out of the cargo bay of an
airplane. In truth, the A75 had some widespread reliability 
problems, notably in earlier units. Nonetheless, it became a sensation, 
and left Iverson with a band of loyal admirers and customers who 
stayed with him throughout the years.
 His legendary status was only enhanced during this time by his 
development of what he called the Force Field loudspeaker. Never 
sold commercially, it was a prototype for a dipolar, massless speaker 
said to be based loosely on the Corona Wind speakers of the 1950s, 
which worked by ionizing air molecules in an electric field and 
exciting them with the audio signal. But the Corona Wind concept had 
never been successfully applied to a wide-range speaker capable of 
significant volume.
 Twenty years after the Corona Wind, Iverson designed huge 
amplifiers using mercury vapor tube rectifiers to generate the 
tremendous power required to make such a speaker listenable. The 
speaker itself consisted of a series of vertical rods mounted in a 
stainless steel frame. From 1973 through '77 or '78, he pushed the 
Force Field through three successively larger iterations. The last was 
about as big as a Quad electrostatic and put out levels of 70 to 80 dB. 
Because of the high voltages involved, it was prone to corona 
discharge, and flooded a room with ozone. "You could see the blue 
spots forming near the rods and you'd have to go over and blow 
them out," says Hefley, one of the many friends who watched and 
heard the speaker evolve in Iverson's workshop. "If you got too close 
it would jump to your nose and shock the hell out of you."
 Seifert also spent long hours with Iverson listening to the Force 
Field, usually in a dark, closed, hot room. "Later on, when I got into 
the physics of how it worked, I realized why we liked it so much," he 
says. "The primary by-product of that speaker was nitrous oxide. I 
think as the evening progressed we just got mellower and mellower."
Of course, like any speaker, the Force field had its sonic faults. It had 
no bass and had to be augmented with a subwoofer below 200 Hz. It 
also beamed like a laser. "It was so directional you could bounce it 
off the wall and listen to the reflection," says John Curl-and 
consequently, it tended to favor soloists over orchestral recordings. 
But if you were in the sweet spot, Seifert says, "you could hear all 
kinds of detail and depth of imaging you couldn't hear from any 
other speaker, and I had heard just about everything at that point. 
To this day, I still consider it the most accurate loudspeaker I've ever 
heard."
 As for what happened to the Force Field, well-no one knows 
for sure. Iverson's most entertaining explanation was that the 
government found out about his invention when he applied for a 
patent, and the FBI, once again, visited his workshop, this time 
collecting the inventor and spiriting him off to a debriefing room. He 
was shown some strikingly similar and highly sensitive particle 
beam technology being worked on by "the Gov," and was warned not 
to market his new device, lest it fall into the hands of foreign 
countries, and Iverson himself take a much longer trip.
 As preposterous as all this sounds, Martin DeWulf, an attorney 
who publishes the High End newsletter Bound For Sound, avows that 
Iverson once sent him a copy of a patent application clearly showing 
the device "denied by U.S. government intervention." Stan Rosick, 
meanwhile, recalls seeing parts of the Force Field lying around 
Electro Research's Chatsworth facility, where he believes it was 
disassembled in preparation for another upgrade and just never put 
back together.
 In any event, Iverson's business dealings proved to be equally 
high-voltage. He was a talented salesman, but a poor entrepreneur 
who preferred the laboratory to the front office. In 1977, at the 
height of demand for the A75, he formed a partnership with Mel 
Schilling, then one of his dealers, in a new marketing company called 
Electro Research Audioptics. The idea, says Schilling, was that 
Iverson would design while Schilling sold product and helped run the 
Chatsworth plant. "The basic fact was that John was brilliant in the 
field, a great designer," says Schilling. "Whether or not we had 
difficulties, our discussion was always about whether a concept was 
marketable, not about whether it was good."
 Difficulties they had. Iverson could be intractable when it came 
to his ideas, insisting, for example, that his new EK-1 preamp be built 
in a solid casting instead of a sheet metal case. Schilling warned it 
would take too long to develop the casting. "But John thought it 
would be so unique, that no one had done it, and he was adamant," 
says Schilling. "That killed it in terms of getting it on the market, 
because the casting was never right."
 Iverson was typically a dedicated, indeed, driven worker. Says 
Seifert, "he would obsess on a project and that's all that mattered-he 
wouldn't eat or sleep until it got done." But he could also be 
unpredictable in an enterprise where many activities focused around 
him. He was known, for example, to update circuits without properly 
documenting the changes for the production line. Or, "we could be in 
the middle of designing an amplifier, and he would decide right there 
that he needed a motorcycle trip, a little R&R," says Schilling. "And 
off he would go, disappearing for a week, and the plant would just 
stop."
 The relationship with Schilling didn't last long, but not because 
of Iverson's work habits. Shortly into the partnership, Iverson met 
David and Phillip Tan, two successful High End importers in 
Singapore with an interest in manufacturing and substantial capital 
to back it up. They agreed to fund development of the EK-1, and 
Iverson made arrangements-without consulting Schilling-to sell 
them the Electro Research name and transfer production to 
Singapore, where tax incentives and cheap labor would allow him to 
build the product the way he wanted it. The plan was for Schilling to 
stay in Chatsworth and continue to do the marketing. But A75 
production was phased out, and the EK-1 continued to be plagued by 
delay. With no product to market, Electro Research Audioptics was 
shut down, leaving Schilling out  in the cold. Yet, he harbors no 
animosity. "The closest people John had to him were me and my 
family," Schilling says. "He probably ate at my house more than he 
ate at his own."

...continued...
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - -

(C) 1994 THE ABSOLUTE SOUND.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Not one word of this article may be reprinted without the written 
permission of the publisher.


Article 18027 of rec.audio.high-end:
Path: news.kth.se!sunic!pipex!howland.reston.ans.net!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!lerc.nasa.gov!lerc.nasa.gov!uunet.uu.net!not-for-mail
From: NeuroHackr@aol.com
Newsgroups: rec.audio.high-end
Subject: (5 of 6) Disappearance of John Iverson
Date: 30 Jul 1994 10:33:08 -0400
Organization: NASA Lewis Research Center
Lines: 235
Sender: torgd@lerc.nasa.gov
Approved: torgd@tolstoy.lerc.nasa.gov
Message-ID: <31dob4$f7f@tolstoy.lerc.nasa.gov>
NNTP-Posting-Host: tolstoy.lerc.nasa.gov

The following article is reprinted courtesy of THE ABSOLUTE SOUND(r).
(C) 1994 THE ABSOLUTE SOUND.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Not one word of this article may be reprinted without the written 
permission of the publisher.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - -
PART 5 OF 6
TAS Journal
Special Report

The Strange Life and
Bizarre Disappearance of
John Iverson

 After hooking up with the Tans, Iverson spent the next four 
years shuttling back and forth between Chatsworth, Singapore, and 
Lake Havasu City, where he had earlier set up a small workshop 
after moving there with his father. The Singapore trips lasted for 
months at a time. Early on, Seifert went over to assist in 
development of the EK-1, but failed to last more than eight weeks 
before he had a falling out with Iverson over their grueling work 
schedule, which allowed Seifert neither a life outside the shop nor a 
normal sleep pattern.
 "His idea of a day of work was that you wake up in the 
morning and of course, coincidentally, you were already on the 
bench," says Seifert. "You'd spend the morning drinking coffee and 
talking about how great things were going to be when all of this stuff 
was done. Then you went to lunch and slowly wound up to some 
work. By late afternoon you were working, and you'd work till you 
dropped. When you got tired, you'd just clear away the bench and go 
to sleep."
 After three years of development, the EK-1 was finally 
released in the US in 1980 at the outrageous price of $3000. It was 
actually a system, including a Panasonic-built strain-gauge cartridge 
and Iverson's factory-tuned preamp. While it was said to image 
better than any playback system on the market, the lack of inputs 
for any other cartridge in a preamp that costly restricted its appeal. 
It proved little more than a minor commercial success.
 Not long after that, in early 1982, Iverson and the Tans had 
their own falling out. Rosick, a close friend of Iverson's dating back to 
his Omega loudspeaker days, had by then been hired as general 
manager of Electro Research in Chatsworth. Rosick says that Iverson 
simply sucked money from the Tans while incessantly delaying the 
EK-1 with his intractable design approach and his unwillingness to 
let the Tans impose any practical limits on him. Iverson's view, as 
told to friends and family, was that the Tans took his design for the 
EK-1 and then, no longer needing him, forced him out.
 Rosick, meanwhile, was kept on by the Tans as they 
subsequently formed Robertson Audio, fueling a rift between himself 
and Iverson. Robertson began selling amplifiers shortly thereafter 
which were rumored to be Iverson's designs, although Rosick says 
they were the work of David Tan. Rosick continues to this day to 
draw salary as general manager of Robertson Audio's US operations, 
though the firm has not offered any products here for some time. 
(Through Rosick, the Tans declined to be interviewed for this article.)
Iverson was known throughout his career to be mistrustful of banks 
and notoriously contemptuous of paying taxes. "Dammit, I earned 
this money-why should the government come and take it away?" he 
would complain to his aunt Jo. One time, his shop in Lake Havasu was 
burglarized while he was in Singapore, and Rosick sent some workers 
to Arizona to secure it. He says they found $800 in gold Krugerrands 
missed by the thieves. The coins had been stuffed into an 
upholstered chair.
 Eventually, Iverson came back to Lake Havasu and formed 
Electron Kinetics. In 1983, he approached Art Ferris, whose company 
Apax Marketing distributed a variety of electronics-related products, 
to sell his new Eagle 7 amplifier, a 300-watt behemoth. "I said, I 
can't sell that boat anchor," Ferris remembers. "It didn't even have a 
power switch. I mean, the house lights would sit there and pulse 
with the switching of the amplifier."
 Nonetheless, Ferris agreed to take the amp on the condition 
that Iverson design a smaller, more saleable piece. He returned with 
a prototype of what became the Eagle 2. Ferris was pleased enough 
with what he heard to sell 70 units to dealers in advance of 
production. But when Iverson came back and asked him to get 
dealers to pay up front to finance their manufacture, Ferris cut his 
losses. "My problem with John was that he would make agreements 
and then just change direction on you, and in business, that's death," 
he says, adding, "I did the best I could to get him started. Printed up 
invoices for him and everything."
 Iverson did get the company off the ground, and the Eagle 2 
became his first popular success since the A75. By the mid-1980s, 
Electron Kinetics was occupying a 9,000 square-foot plant on Empire 
Drive in Lake Havasu and employing as many as19 people. As a local 
businessman, Iverson enjoyed keeping a low profile- "he was not the 
type of guy who got his picture in the paper for volunteering to help 
with the London Bridge Day Parade or donating $2400 to the boy 
scouts," says ex-Herald reporter Charlie Downs. But he grabbed the 
spotlight anyway in 1986 when his fight with Citizens Utilities, the 
local power company, made headlines in the newspaper.
 Iverson was irked over the poor consistency and high rates of 
his power. So he obtained a surplus diesel generator which he 
claimed to have modified, improving its efficiency to where he could 
create his own juice at lower cost than he could buy it. It seems 
unclear if there was really anything unique about the generator. But 
the lengthy write-up in the paper no doubt embarrassed Citizens.
Eventually, the matter was settled when Iverson left the location. 
According to Russ Sherwood, who worked for Iverson, his refusal to 
pay $22,000 a year for liability insurance forced the landlord not to 
renew his lease. While that may have been a factor, Munro says, 
Iverson was also looking to downsize at the time in the wake of their 
marriage. "He told me he hadn't been a child, he had worked all his 
life and was never able to really play, and now he wanted to play 
with his woman."
 But Iverson's power trip against Citizens was one that would 
come back to haunt him. Years later, when he and Sherwood got 
picked up in the desert for spooling up cable, it was Citizens Utility 
that pressed the charges, landing Iverson Friday visits with his 
probation officer. Iverson called her "that bitch." Says Doug Iverson, 
"John and humility were not generally put in the same sentence. It 
was a situation he said many times he found unacceptable."
For whatever reasons, Iverson left the plant at Empire. He was also 
in debt by then to a local bank, from whom he had borrowed "at 
least $100,000," says his brother, to expand the business when it was 
still at Empire. It was a rare and singular move for Iverson, who 
despised borrowing, and, justly, expected to be paid in cash. "My 
brother never liked to owe anybody anything, and  he expected 
people to pay up what they owed him. I give you this, you pay me 
this much. That was how he thought," Doug says. John still owed the 
bank a portion of that loan when he disappeared.
 Electron Kinetics moved from its grand factory into Iverson's 
1500 square-foot, one-room brick workshop, dubbed "the Shack,'' 
and generated revenue by selling existing inventory and upgrading 
older products for customers in the field.
 Sometime before that move, however, Iverson had begun 
changing, say his friends and family. The death of his father softened 
him, says his brother, and when his mother and stepfather took up a 
home in  Lake Havasu, John moved in with them and matured 
further. "Up till then, it was like John had been raised by 
lumberjacks-he had no social graces," Doug says. "My mother really 
took this lump of clay and molded it."
 It was around this time period that Iverson married Kathy 
Munro. Jerry Munro, a prominent Havasu physician and Iverson's 
close friend, had in fact worked for NASA at White Sands National 
Laboratory during the Apollo program, where Kathy believes he and 
Iverson were introduced. Iverson's family thinks the connection was 
made when Munro became Al Iverson's doctor. But wherever they 
met, they built a strong friendship as Iverson, who suffered fools 
badly, found one of the few people in Havasu with an intellect that 
matched his own. Like Iverson, Jerry Munro was a heavy drinker, 
and the two spent long nights talking and packing it away.
 Munro's wife Kathy was a spunky California native. After Jerry 
died of a heart attack, Iverson confessed his love for her, proposing 
for four hours. "He told me, 'I've been in love with you for 10 years, 
ever since I met you.'" Munro says. "I said 'What?!' I never had an 
inkling. He said, 'I would never come on to my best friend's wife.'" 
The two exchanged vows  in February of 1987, marking the occasion 
with a memorable cake fight. It was Munro's third marriage, 
Iverson's first.
 Munro also enjoyed the sensitive side of John that few people 
saw. He called her Honeylamb, and she referred to him as her 
"diamond in the rough." "What John lacked in social abilities, Kathy 
made up for," says Kathy's sister Judy Gagnebin. "They 
complemented each other, and Kathy somehow understood this crazy 
man."
 "John was really in love with her," says Iverson's cousin Patty. 
"Every time we'd see him he'd say, 'I've got myself a woman. I can't 
believe I'm so lucky. I've never been so happy in my life. My 
honeylamb spoils me.'"
 In the wake of the wedding, Electron Kinetics was still on 
Empire Drive and appeared to be climbing. Friends who saw John and 
Kathy at the CES show in Vegas in January of '88 say he looked the 
best they'd ever seen him. He told at least one acquaintance he'd 
stopped drinking.
 Within a year, however, Iverson had shuttered his factory, and 
he and Kathy took to the road. They would load up the motor home 
with their Labrador retriever and their cat, and travel around the 
country peddling Electron Kinetics amplifiers to High End dealers.
Mark Schneider remembers meeting John for the first time as they 
pulled up to a store he managed in Chicago in 1988. "He was sort of 
like Hemingway," he says, "a hard-smoking, hard-drinking, two-
fisted kind of guy. When I shook hands with him I barely got my 
hand back in one piece. The next morning, I knocked on his door and 
got dragged in for the strongest cup of coffee I've ever had. It kept 
me up for three days." As for he and Kathy, "they looked like the 
model couple to me. He seemed really happy with her."
 And yet, though John and Kathy got along well, the two were 
divorced shortly afterward. The move was said to be a kind of 
divorce-of-convenience to protect Kathy's assets from John's 
liabilities, be they tax, bank, or otherwise. "John didn't believe in 
paying taxes," says Funder of the Havasu Police. "So rather than her 
being at risk, she just divorced him, but they were still living 
together." Subsequently, John also transferred whatever modest 
assets he had-his shop building, his motor home-into her name.
After Iverson moved Electron Kinetics into the Shack, the company 
officially became an inactive corporation, but continued to plug along 
at a lower volume. John hired a worker or two-basically high school 
students-to handle the upgrades and repairs while he worked on 
new designs and other projects.
 Kurt Peters was one of those high school students, and, along 
with a buddy, was one of the two remaining employees of Electron 
Kinetics when Iverson disappeared. Now a student at Arizona State, 
he calls his ex-boss a "very, very carefree" individual who usually 
showed up wearing shorts and sandals. As a boss, Iverson was 
generous with his knowledge, and seemed to enjoy the paternal role. 
"It was very much a learning experience," Peters says. "He'd have me 
come in after hours and teach me different things I could do with the 
equipment. I learned a vast amount about audio."
 Of course, working for Iverson in close quarters could be a 
learning experience in more ways than one. Peters says he drank 
Jack Daniels frequently at the shop, and smoked about four packs of 
cigarettes a day, often lighting a new one before the one in his hand 
had been fully exhausted.
 Furthermore, Iverson's interest in guns extended to his 
workplace, where he would occasionally pick up whatever weapon 
was lying around and fire it into an old speaker. One night, Peters 
left Iverson at the shop, drinking with some friends. When he came 
back the next day, he noticed there was a manhole cover missing 
from the street. It turned out to be inside, where John and his 
buddies had used it as a backstop for target practice. "There was 
glass all over the floor, and empty shell casings everywhere," says 
Peters. "The whole bathroom ceiling and door were just shredded 
with lead."
 Another time, Iverson accidentally drove the Toodler onto the 
hood of Peter's car, though he apologetically paid to fix it. "Working 
for him was a real adventure," Peters says wistfully. "There were a 
lot of trying times, but I have to admit, I'll never have a job like that 
again."
 In the last year before Iverson disappeared, Electron Kinetics' 
customer base had shrunk to about five loyal dealers. Iverson took 
frequent trips to California, each time bringing back amps for 
upgrade. The firm sold new pieces as well, taking one of the 50 or so 
boxed amps from the Empire Drive inventory, upgrading it to the 
current generation Eagle 2c, and shipping it out. And Iverson 
developed a bridging circuit for the Eagle 2, allowing him to 
introduce a powerful monoblock, the Eagle 400a.

...continued...
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - -

(C) 1994 THE ABSOLUTE SOUND.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Not one word of this article may be reprinted without the written 
permission of the publisher.


Article 18042 of rec.audio.high-end:
Path: news.kth.se!sunic!uunet!panix!ddsw1!news.kei.com!eff!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!lerc.nasa.gov!lerc.nasa.gov!uunet.uu.net!not-for-mail
From: NeuroHackr@aol.com
Newsgroups: rec.audio.high-end
Subject: (6 of 6) Disappearance of John Iverson
Date: 2 Aug 1994 10:24:32 -0400
Organization: NASA Lewis Research Center
Lines: 192
Sender: torgd@lerc.nasa.gov
Approved: torgd@tolstoy.lerc.nasa.gov
Message-ID: <31lkv0$ge5@tolstoy.lerc.nasa.gov>
NNTP-Posting-Host: tolstoy.lerc.nasa.gov

The following article is reprinted courtesy of THE ABSOLUTE SOUND(r).
(C) 1994 THE ABSOLUTE SOUND.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Not one word of this article may be reprinted without the written 
permission of the publisher.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - -
PART 6 OF 6
TAS Journal
Special Report

The Strange Life and
Bizarre Disappearance of
John Iverson

 He continued to work hard, and began developing a series of 
dynamic powered loudspeakers to bring to market. The two- and 
three-way designs were to use bandwidth-limited amplifiers built by 
Iverson to take the place of crossovers and maximize the 
performance of each driver. At the time of his disappearance, the 
prototype for the first model was essentially complete. Iverson 
started talking with Don Frick about a partnership on the new 
speakers. Iverson would focus on new product while Frick, whom 
Iverson had known since his teenage days, could handle the 
repetitious work of running the business. "It was a good idea," says 
Doug Iverson. "Don was someone he could trust completely."
 Iverson was also at work on a new preamp, says Peters, and 
was gearing up for a new production run on his amplifiers. The 
company had exhausted its supply of pre-built amps, and business 
was picking up significantly. Peters and his friend had just begun 
building new amps from scratch; Iverson had gotten the necessary 
papers to reactivate the corporation, and was in the process of lining 
up suppliers. He sat Peters down to have a talk about the future.
 But not all was well. His relationship with Kathy was 
apparently souring. Though Kathy claims that things were picture 
perfect at the time of Iverson's disappearance, several sources 
suggest otherwise. The breaking point was supposedly a serious fight 
the two had just prior to Labor Day weekend, when Kathy was said 
to have lost her temper and viciously dressed Iverson down, 
attacking his character, Doug says. "The bubble's been broken," John 
told him. "Either she's going to accept me, or I'm leaving. I've told her 
by January 1, she either decides or I'm out."
 For her part, Munro acknowledges a serious fight she had with 
John that summer which resulted in him taking off in his motor 
home for three days before returning to make amends. But the 
dispute had not been over John's character, she says, rather over a 
specific incident in which he was attempting to show off to a friend 
by ordering her about. That, she suggests, was the only argument of 
any significance the two ever had.
 On another note, Iverson was also having doubts about Kathy's 
handling of the household account, and told his brother about that as 
well. In the last conversation Doug had with John before he 
disappeared, they agreed by telephone to sit down the next time 
they were together and work out a budget.
 In the last few months prior to Iverson's disappearance, 
Rahnem noticed that Kathy was no longer accompanying him when 
he came to visit, and he had stopped using any terms of endearment 
to describe her. Peters heard Iverson fighting with her on the phone 
at the shop. Doug heard him complain that she spent day after day at 
home in her pajamas. "He said, 'This is ridiculous. She doesn't want to 
get out of her bedroom.'" While some observers suspected her 
reclusive behavior might be a sign of clinical depression, Munro told 
TAS she was emotionally well, but chronically troubled by a bad hip 
which had a tendency to keep her homebound.
 But Iverson's biggest problems may not have been with Kathy. 
Though the IRS will not discuss Iverson's case or confirm the 
existence of any investigation, there are indications he was in debt to 
the government when he disappeared. He had already been audited 
by either the state or the IRS in 1989, says Peters. Then sometime in 
mid-1990, Iverson asked him to rummage through the files at the 
shop to look for receipts and other documents. "I heard him say 
something about a corporate audit," Peters says. "He said, basically, 
'I'm going to get screwed again by the IRS.'" Patty Rahnem simply 
says, "Oh yeah. Big bucks, they wanted."
 Munro confirms that the state of Arizona had indeed come 
calling shortly before Iverson's disappearance. The authorities 
suspected he had been selling amplifiers within the state without 
paying the appropriate taxes. In her role as Iverson's bookkeeper, 
Munro had compiled the necessary documents to prove otherwise, 
and had shipped off the packet to the tax bureau just a few days 
before Iverson vanished, she says.
 During the work week that led up to the Friday night that 
Iverson disappeared, Peters observed him in a series of odd 
behaviors that later became significant for him in light of Iverson 
vanishing. First, he came into the shop one day with a little plastic 
bag.
 "He pulled out this wad of cash," Peters says. "He made the 
comment, 'you'd be amazed at what money can buy.' And he made a 
cynical laugh about it and put it away. I'd personally never seen that 
much money before." The money was later thought to be the 
remainder of John's inheritance from the sale of his mother's estate 
in Seattle, which had been delivered to him shortly before by his 
brother. John's portion came to about $50,000. Iverson had used a 
portion of  it to pay off the mortgage on his workshop, then 
subsequently signed the property over to Munro.
 What's more, Peters thought it curious that Iverson was 
pressuring him to process several remaining customer-owned 
amplifiers before the week was out. At the time, he and a helper 
were quite busy building new units. "At the stage we were at, it 
would have been normal procedure to finish those up, then get to the 
customer units as soon as possible," Peters says. But when the young 
men failed to meet a UPS deadline on Wednesday, Iverson "was quite 
upset about it. And he said to make sure we get it off by Friday."
Also earlier that week, Iverson came into the shop very excited. He 
had talked to Weber about the gun, which Peters also knew about. 
"Most of the time he shared his projects with me," Peters says. "He 
said, 'Kurt, kick ass! The gun works! It's awesome.' He was very 
enthusiastic."  Peters had met Weber and his wife at the shop on at 
least one occasion, he said, and "every indication had led me to 
believe they were friends."
 Another curiosity, Peters says, was that payday came twice in 
as many weeks. While that may be normal at some businesses, 
Iverson's protocol was to wait for his two charges to ask before 
settling their hours. That was generally once every couple of weeks. 
But Iverson went out of his way to pay the boys the Friday he 
disappeared, though he had just done so a short while before, Peters 
notes. After settling up, Iverson left the shop, telling Peters he was 
going to meet Jack Weber. That was the last time Peters saw him.

Dead or Alive?
Several of John's old friends firmly believe that Iverson was capable 
of staging his own kidnapping or disappearance. That is also what 
Peters believes, and what the Lake Havasu Police think, though they 
aren't ruling anything out.
 It was learned that Iverson had gone to visit Stan Rosick in 
California in the waning days of December, just a week or two before 
he vanished. They hadn't seen or spoken to each other in many 
years. So at Iverson's urging, Rosick met with him for dinner. They 
reminisced about the old times, and Rosick says Iverson inquired 
about David and Philip Tan, his old benefactors in Singapore. Patty 
Rahnem, meanwhile, says her father, who was close with his nephew 
John, had once heard him brag that he had money buried somewhere 
on that tiny island country, though it may have just been another 
one of his stories.
 Also curious was the subsequent disappearance of Don Frick. 
Frick, whose divorce had apparently precipitated his move to 
Havasu, may have been in a good position to drop out himself. The 
Lake Havasu police are also wondering about the significance of a call 
they got this past November, involving the house Frick was living in 
while he was there. He had planned on purchasing the home, but a 
few months after Iverson's disappearance, he walked away from it, 
sacrificing his deposit and leaving furniture behind.
 Then, last fall, a neighbor reported seeing a strange car pull 
into the driveway, and watching someone get out and start digging in 
the backyard. When the police checked it out, they found a now-
empty hole about four feet square and four feet deep. It had been 
shored up with pressboard, and the female end of an extension cord 
was sticking out from beneath the sod. The cord ran, fully concealed, 
beneath the grass to the side of the house, where it ended near an 
outdoor power outlet.
 The police determined that Frick had laid the sod over what 
had previously been a dirt yard while he still lived at the house. "I 
could have a whole lot of questions for Frick," Funder says.
 Those who believe in the foul play theory point to different 
things. Munro, for example, notes that Iverson had sent her to buy 
liquor during the week prior to his disappearance; the state liquor 
tax was about to go up so he had her stock the cabinet to the tune of 
$1500. This, she says, was not the behavior of a man who was not 
planning on sticking around. Others suggest that Iverson had too 
many projects he was excited about to simply walk away.
 On the other hand, look at what was pushing him.... His 
relationship with Munro was supposedly crumbling, and he had 
signed over all his assets to her. His business may have been audited, 
suggesting that any success he had with his new products would be 
enjoyed only by "the Gov." He was stuck with a  seemingly  limitless 
bank loan, and weekly visits to a probation officer he despised. It is 
not unreasonable, when you add it all together, that he might want to 
escape. Of course, only a certain type of man would actually do it. 
Iverson certainly could be one of them.
 And yet, dead or alive, however the story ends, John Iverson's 
saga will always remain a tragedy of wasted talent. On the surface, 
Iverson's life is, or was, a monument to survival and individual 
expression, taken to the nth degree. But on close inspection, it is 
more a series of near misses-great flashes of genius denied to the 
world of hi-fi and elsewhere by a man unable, or simply unwilling, to 
play the game by the rules. Given his history, that seems unlikely to 
change, even if Iverson were to turn up tomorrow, healthy as a mule.
For most of his professional career, John Iverson played the role of 
the High End's own Icarus. Like the fabled mythological character 
who flew too close to the sun, Iverson climbed again and again, only 
to self-destruct on each pass, just when success was knocking 
loudest. Until finally, his luck or his time ran out, and in the way of 
so many brilliant High End designers, he simply disappeared.

-Rob Sabin

Anyone with further information on the Iverson case should contact 
EditorTAS@aol.com.

(C) 1994 THE ABSOLUTE SOUND.  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Not one word of this article may be reprinted without the written 
permission of the publisher.


